Feature/springcloudcircuitbreaker (#644)
ordina-jworks/ordina-jworks.github.io: _posts/2020-11-05-springCloudCircuitBreaker.md

You should see the complete recommended ingredients list:

Onions, Potatoes, Celery, Carrots

Now shut down the Soup application. Our list source is gone, but thanks to Resilience4J 
we have a reliable list to stand in,you should see:

Onions

# Configuring Circuit Breakers with Spring Retry
Spring-retry depends on Aspectj which is not included in the skeleton project, so we will add below dependency in the pom.xml file.
```
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.retry</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-retry</artifactId>
    <version>${version}</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-aspects</artifactId>
    <version>${version}</version>
</dependency>
```
Create one  Rest controller which will call the backend service class where we will simulate the exception and spring-retry module will automatically retry.
In the Rest Api we will add two optional request parameters.

simulateretry – parameter to simulate the exception scenario, so that spring can retry.
simulateretryfallback – as we are simulating the exception, after retry certain times we can either expect a successful backend call or all retry falls. 

> In this case we will go to the fall back method to get hard-coded/error response. Now this parameter will ensure all the retry will fail and we will go to fall back path only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, we will go to the fall back method to get a hard-coded/error response. Now this parameter will ensure all the retries will fail and go to fall back path.
```

```
package com.example.springretry;
 
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.ExceptionHandler;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.GetMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestParam;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;
 
@RestController
public class MyRestController {
 
    @Autowired
    BackendAdapter backendAdapter;
 
    @GetMapping("/retry")
    @ExceptionHandler({ Exception.class })
    public String validateSPringRetryCapability(@RequestParam(required = false) boolean simulateretry,
                                @RequestParam(required = false) boolean simulateretryfallback) 
    {
        System.out.println("===============================");
        System.out.println("Inside RestController method..");
 
        return backendAdapter.getBackendResponse(simulateretry, simulateretryfallback);
    }
}
```

> To enable spring-retry we need to put one annotation in the Spring Boot Application class. So open SpringRetryApplication class and add @EnableRetry in class level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable spring-retry we need to put one annotation in the Spring Boot Application class. So open `SpringRetryApplication` class and add `@EnableRetry` at class level.
```

```
package com.example.springretry;
 
import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;
import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;
import org.springframework.retry.annotation.EnableRetry;
 
@EnableRetry
@SpringBootApplication
public class SpringRetryApplication {
 
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(SpringRetryApplication.class, args);
    }
}
```
Now we will create one interface/implementation for calling the external service. 

> Here we will not actually call any external service call, rather will simulate the success/failure scenarios by adding some random logic, as below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here we will not actually call any external service call, but rather simulate the success/failure scenarios by adding some random logic, as below.
```

```
package com.example.springretry;
 
import org.springframework.retry.annotation.Backoff;
import org.springframework.retry.annotation.Recover;
import org.springframework.retry.annotation.Retryable;
 
public interface BackendAdapter {
 
    @Retryable(value = { RemoteServiceNotAvailableException.class }, maxAttempts = 3, backoff = @Backoff(delay = 1000))
    public String getBackendResponse(boolean simulateretry, boolean simulateretryfallback);
 
    @Recover
    public String getBackendResponseFallback(RuntimeException e);
 
}

```

> @Retryable – This is the main annotation after @EnableRetry. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`@Retryable` – This is the main annotation after `@EnableRetry`. 
```

> This annotation tells that if we get RemoteServiceNotAvailableException from the method then retry maximum 3 times before sending the response. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This annotation tells us that if we get a RemoteServiceNotAvailableException from the method, we retry three more times before sending the fallback response. 
```

Also we are introducing delay of 1 second in each retry.

> @Recover – in the fallback method indicates that if we don’t get any success response after 3 retry, response will come from this fallback method. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`@Recover` – this fallback annotation indicates that if we don’t get any successful response after 3 retries, the response will come from this fallback method. 
```

> Make sure you pass expected exception as parameter, else spring will have hard time finding the exact method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you pass the expected exception as a parameter, else spring will have a hard time finding the exact method.
```

import org.springframework.stereotype.Service;
 
@Service
public class BackendAdapterImpl implements BackendAdapter {
 
    @Override
    public String getBackendResponse(boolean simulateretry, boolean simulateretryfallback) {
 
        if (simulateretry) {
            System.out.println("Simulateretry is true, so try to simulate exception scenario.");
 
            if (simulateretryfallback) {
                throw new RemoteServiceNotAvailableException(
                        "Don't worry!! Just Simulated for Spring-retry..Must fallback as all retry will get exception!!!");
            }
            int random = new Random().nextInt(4);
 
            System.out.println("Random Number : " + random);
            if (random % 2 == 0) {
                throw new RemoteServiceNotAvailableException("Don't worry!! Just Simulated for Spring-retry..");
            }
        }
 
        return "Hello from Remote Backend!!!";
    }
 
    @Override
    public String getBackendResponseFallback(RuntimeException e) {
        System.out.println("All retries completed, so Fallback method called!!!");
        return "All retries completed, so Fallback method called!!!";
    }
}
```

> Testing the retry methods from Spring Retry
> Start with 'http://localhost:8080/retry?simulateretry=true&simulateretryfallback=false' in your browser. Based on the parameter, we are expecting exception in the backend service call and at the same time as simulateretryfallback=false, we are depending on the random logic (random % 2 == 0 –> even random number) we can expect a success response while retry.
> So once we hit the request in browser, we might get exception in backend and spring will retry the same method multiple times. The outcome could be the Success response from backend. Here are the few lines of log from one of my request where spring is trying retry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testing the retry methods from Spring Retry
Start with browsing to 'http://localhost:8080/retry?simulateretry=true&simulateretryfallback=false'. 
Based on the parameter, we are expecting exceptions and because `simulateretryfallback` is false, we are depending on the random logic (random % 2 == 0 –> even random number) that will random give us a successful response while retrying.
So once we hit the request in the browser, we might get an exception in the backend and spring will retry the same method multiple times. The outcome could be a successful response from the backend. Here are a few lines of the log from one of my requests where spring is retrying.
```

```
Console logging
===============================
Inside RestController method..
Simulateretry is true, so try to simulate exception scenario.
Random Number : 1
 
===============================
Inside RestController mathod..
Simulateretry is true, so try to simulate exception scenario.
Random Number : 2
Simulateretry is true, so try to simulate exception scenario.
Random Number : 2
Simulateretry is true, so try to simulate exception scenario.
Random Number : 0
All retries completed, so Fallback method called!!!
```

> Now try with 'http://localhost:8080/retry?simulateretry=true&simulateretryfallback=true', you will get fallback response after retry limit as from code everytime we are throwing RuntimeException. 
> Here are my last few lines of code, it tried 3 times before sending the response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now try with 'http://localhost:8080/retry?simulateretry=true&simulateretryfallback=true', you will get a fallback response after you hit the retry limit. 
```

```
Console logging
===============================
Inside RestController method..
Simulateretry is true, so try to simulate exception scenario.
Simulateretry is true, so try to simulate exception scenario.
Simulateretry is true, so try to simulate exception scenario.
All retries completed, so Fallback method called!!!
```

Spring Retry provides declarative retry support for Spring applications. A subset of the project includes the ability to implement circuit breaker functionality. 
Spring Retry provides a circuit breaker implementation via a combination of it’s CircuitBreakerRetryPolicy and a stateful retry. 
All circuit breakers created using Spring Retry will be created using the CircuitBreakerRetryPolicy and a DefaultRetryState. 

> Both of these classes can be configured using SpringRetryConfigBuilder.
> To provide a default configuration for all of your circuit breakers create a Customize bean that is passed a SpringRetryCircuitBreakerFactory. 
> The configureDefault method can be used to provide a default configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both of these classes can be configured using the `SpringRetryConfigBuilder`.
To provide a default configuration for all of your circuit breakers, create a `Customize` bean that is passed a `SpringRetryCircuitBreakerFactory`. 
The `configure default` method can be used to provide a default configuration.
```

```
@Bean
public Customizer<SpringRetryCircuitBreakerFactory> defaultCustomizer() {
    return factory -> factory.configureDefault(id -> new SpringRetryConfigBuilder(id)
        .retryPolicy(new TimeoutRetryPolicy()).build());
}
```

> Similarly to providing a default configuration, you can create a Customize bean this is passed a SpringRetryCircuitBreakerFactory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly to providing a default configuration, you can create a `Customize` bean this is passed a `SpringRetryCircuitBreakerFactory`.
```

```
@Bean
public Customizer<SpringRetryCircuitBreakerFactory> slowCustomizer() {
    return factory -> factory.configure(builder -> builder.retryPolicy(new SimpleRetryPolicy(1)).build(), "slow");
}
```

> In addition to configuring the circuit breaker that is created you can also customize the circuit breaker after it has been created but before it is returned to the caller. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to configuring the circuit breaker that is created, you can also customize the circuit breaker after it has been created but before it is returned to the caller. 
```

> To do this you can use the addRetryTemplateCustomizers method. This can be useful for adding event handlers to the RetryTemplate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this you can use the `addRetryTemplateCustomizers` method. This can be useful for adding event handlers to the `RetryTemplate`.
```

```
@Bean
public Customizer<SpringRetryCircuitBreakerFactory> slowCustomizer() {
    return factory -> factory.addRetryTemplateCustomizers(retryTemplate -> retryTemplate.registerListener(new RetryListener() {

        @Override
        public <T, E extends Throwable> boolean open(RetryContext context, RetryCallback<T, E> callback) {
            return false;
        }

        @Override
        public <T, E extends Throwable> void close(RetryContext context, RetryCallback<T, E> callback, Throwable throwable) {

        }

        @Override
        public <T, E extends Throwable> void onError(RetryContext context, RetryCallback<T, E> callback, Throwable throwable) {

        }
    }));
}
```

## Differences Resilience4j with Netflix Hystrix and Spring Retry

> Although Resilience4j is inspired by Netflix Hystrix it is more lightweight and you don’t have to go all-in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although Resilience4j is inspired by Netflix Hystrix, it is more lightweight and you don’t have to go all-in.
```

Quoting the official page “Resilience4j is a lightweight fault tolerance library inspired by Netflix Hystrix, but designed for functional programming.”

<div style="text-align: center;">
  <img alt="Hystrix" src="/img/2020-11-05-spring-cloud-circuit-breaker/differences.png" width="auto" height="auto" class="image fit">
</div>

> Since 2019 when Spring announced that Hystrix Dashboard would be removed from Spring Cloud 3.1, one year after Netflix announces that they were putting this project into maintenance mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 2019 Spring announced that Hystrix Dashboard would be removed from Spring Cloud 3.1, one year after Netflix announces that they were putting this project into maintenance mode.
```
